feat: add kyverno-authz-server integration (#15963)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/integrations/kyverno-authz-server/index.md

---

> title: Kyverno Authz Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kyverno
```

> description: How to integrate with Kyverno Authz Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to use Kyverno as an external authorization server.
```

weight: 33
keywords: [integration,kyverno,policy,authorization]
owner: istio/wg-environments-maintainers

> test: no

Reviewer: Have you considered making this testable?  Should be pretty easy.
Check https://github.com/istio/istio.io/tree/master/tests and let me know if you have any issues

---

> The [Kyverno Authz Server](https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno-envoy-plugin) is a GRPC authorization server implementing the [Envoy's External Authorization protocol](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/service/auth/v3/external_auth.proto).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Kyverno Authz Server](https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno-envoy-plugin) is a gRPC authorization server implementing the [Envoy External Authorization protocol](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/service/auth/v3/external_auth.proto).
```

> Istio and the Kyverno Authz Server is a solid option to deliver policy quickly and transparently to application team everywhere in the business, while also providing the data the security teams need for audit and compliance.

Reviewer: Can you give a bit more context for someone who isn't familiar with Kyverno?  Realistically, is this guide for "I use Kyverno and want to bring Istio into my central policy system" or is it for "There is something in Istio I can't do, and so I want to add a third-party thing, and this is going to be my first experience with Kyverno"?

> ## Try it out

Reviewer: Probably best to follow the pattern set out by docs like https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-custom/

      [KYVERNO DEMO] my-new-dynamic-metadata: '%DYNAMIC_METADATA(envoy.filters.http.ext_authz)%'
    extensionProviders:
    - name: kyverno-authz-server
      envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
        service: kyverno-authz-server.kyverno.svc.cluster.local
        port: '9081'
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Notice that in the configuration, we define an `extensionProviders` section that points to the Kyverno Authz Server installation:

{{< text yaml >}}
[...]
    extensionProviders:
    - name: kyverno-authz-server
      envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
        service: kyverno-authz-server.kyverno.svc.cluster.local
        port: '9081'
[...]
{{< /text >}}

#### Deploy the Kyverno Authz Server

The Kyverno Authz Server is a GRPC server capable of processing Envoy External Authorization requests.

It is configurable using Kyverno `AuthorizationPolicy` resources, either stored in-cluster or provided externally.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create ns kyverno
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label namespace kyverno istio-injection=enabled
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ helm install kyverno-authz-server --namespace kyverno --wait --repo https://kyverno.github.io/kyverno-envoy-plugin kyverno-authz-server

> {{< /text >}}

Reviewer: condense as per the blog?

[...]
{{< /text >}}

`DYNAMIC_METADATA` is a reserved keyword to access the metadata object. The rest is the name of the filter that you want to access.

In our case, the name `envoy.filters.http.ext_authz` is created automatically by Istio. You can verify this by dumping the Envoy configuration:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl pc all deploy/httpbin -n my-app -oyaml | grep envoy.filters.http.ext_authz
{{< /text >}}

You will see the configurations for the filter.

Let's test the dynamic metadata. In the advance rule, we are creating a new metadata entry: `{"my-new-metadata": "my-new-value"}`.

Run the request and check the logs of the application:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n my-app deploy/curl -- curl -s -I httpbin:8000/get -H "x-force-authorized: true"
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl logs -n my-app deploy/httpbin -c istio-proxy --tail 1
{{< /text >}}

You will see in the output the new attributes configured by the Kyverno policy:

{{< text plain >}}
[...]
[KYVERNO DEMO] my-new-dynamic-metadata: '{"my-new-metadata":"my-new-value","ext_authz_duration":5}'
[...]
{{< /text >}}

> ## Wrap Up
> 
> In this guide, we have shown how to integrate Istio and the Kyverno Authz Server to enforce policies for a simple microservices application.
> We also showed how to use policies to modify the request and response attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
